commas are tricky things especially when
subordinate some conjunctions are
involved if you can remember a few basic
rules a simple law of physics and some
common scenarios you will be able to use
commas correctly I like to think of the
different parts of our sentence as
characters let's meet a few of them
the tiny conjunctions the mighty
subordinates and the clever comma
conjunctions are small and nimble they
are words that connect clauses words and
phrases you can easily remember the
conjunctions by remembering the acronym
fanboys the conjunctions are for and nor
but or yet so because they're so small
more often than not they require the
help of a comma but not always
subordinates on the other hand are the
WWE heavyweight champions of sentences
they are words that connect two unequal
things dependent and independent clauses
subordinates make it very clear what is
being prioritized in a sentence commonly
used subordinates are although because
before however unless and even though
because subordinates are all about power
they can do a lot of heavy lifting by
themselves but of course sometimes even
the strongest among us need some help
from our clever friends because our
clever comma is so nice she often roams
her neighborhood looking for some
community service to do today as soon as
she leaves her house she sees a
subordinate lifting the weight of two
complete sentences one on each arm
Bartha Lane loves engaging in political
debate even though he usually loses the
comma asks the subordinate if he needs
help well we know that subordinates are
the WWE heavyweight champions of
sentences they can easily hold the
weight of these two complete sentences
because they are distributed evenly on
both arms so when the comma asks if it
can help the subordinate is a
hold at the idea of needing assistance
no thanks
maybe next time so the Kama continues on
soon she sees a couple of subordinates
attempting to lift the weight of
sentences directly in front of
themselves even though
barthélémy loves to sing he never sings
in front of others the Kama asks the
subordinates if they need help they
might not want to admit it but this time
the subordinates do need help complete
sentences weigh quite a bit simple
physics tells us that it's easier to
balance heavy objects if the weight is
evenly distributed so while the
subordinates are quite capable of
balancing to complete sentences when
carrying the weight on both sides
they're having trouble picking just one
up the Kama rushes over to help the
struggling subordinates but how will she
help when subordinates begin sentences
the Kama will place herself directly
after the first thought or complete
sentence after helping the subordinates
our kama heroine continues on and spots
a conjunction holding the weight of two
complete sentences Barth elaine was
accepted into the University of Chicago
and he is on the wait list for Stanford
University the Kama asks the conjunction
if he needs help of course he does hurry
the Kama rushes and places itself before
the conjunction fanboys aren't as
militant as subordinates for this reason
the commas don't have to fall in line
behind the fanboys fanboys are courteous
creatures they allow the comma to go
ahead of them helping others is hard
work
on her way home our kama sees a
conjunction holding up the weight of a
complete sentence and a fragment
sentence Barth elaine is going to major
in molecular biology or interpretive
dance the now exhausted kama asks the
conjunction if he needs help lifting the
items this is one of the rare occasions
where a conjunction doesn't need the
help of a comma the conjunction assures
the Kama that help isn't needed which is
good for the Kama because by now all it
wants to do is go home and rest up for
another day of vigilant sentence
constructing
you